Here again are two, 3-dimensional coordinate
frames labeled A and B, and the relative pose
A ksi B which is the pose of B with respect
to A. We've introduced the point P and we
can describe that in terms of a vector with
respect to the origin of coordinate frame
A, and we denote that just as we did for the
2-dimensional case in the last lecture in
this fashion where P indicates a vector and
A is the reference frame that indicates that
the vector P is defined with respect to the
coordinate frame A.
We can also define this point with respect
to the coordinate frame B and just as for
the 2-dimensional case, we can transform a
vector from one coordinate frame to another
using the dot operator.
So, we take the relative pose A ksi B and
use the dot to apply it to the vector P with
respect to B and we can think of the B's in
the middle here cancelling out and the result
is that we are left with P defined with respect
to coordinate frame A. We can extend this
process.
Now, we can define coordinate frame C with
respect to coordinate frame B using the symbol
B ksi C. And we can compose the 2 relative
transformations, B with respect to A and C
with respect to B in order to obtain the relative
pose of C with respect to A and we use the
composition operator which is a plus sign
inside a circle and exactly what that means
is something we'll get to later in this lecture
but it's a process referred to as composing
or compounding and we can extend this process
indefinitely.
And once we've compounded these two relative
poses, now we have the relative pose of frame
C with respect to A, we can write an expression
for the vector with respect to frame C and
the vector with respect to frame A and we
can extend this approach indefinitely.
We've introduced a pose algebra and there
were just a few simple rules, and these are
exactly the same as for the 2-dimensional
case.
The actual implementation of ksi differs between
the 2-D case and the 3-D case but when we
deal with it in terms of the abstract symbol
ksi and abstract operators, the rules are
absolutely identical.
So, the first rule is composition.
Two relative poses can be compounded to get
a third relative pose.
When we do this, there are some important
checks.
These two inner indices must be equal and
they effectively cancel out.
The leading indices are the same and the trailing
indices are the same.
In general, composition is not commutative
so that means ksi 1 compounded with ksi 2
is different to ksi 2 compounded with ksi
1.
There is a notion of a null relative pose,
that means no change in the pose and we represent
that by the symbol O.
So, if I have a relative pose of ksi and I
compound it with the null pose, the result
is the original pose.
It's made no change to the pose.
If I consider a pose as a relative motion
from A to B, and then I go back from B to
A, I'm back where I started from, I haven't
moved any distance.
That's the null pose 0.
And if I compound with the inverse of the
null pose, again, I'm left with my original
pose.
Now for vectors, we can apply a relative pose
to a vector, effectively transforms a vector
from one coordinate frame to another.
In this particular case, it transforms the
vector from frame Y to frame X, and to check
if we've done this right, these inner two
indices must be the same, we can think of
them as effectively cancelling out.
And these two leading indices must be the
same.
These are very simple checks that we can use
to ensure that we've written our expressions
down correctly.
Here's a very complex example where I have
a large number of 3-dimensional coordinate
frames representing some robotics scenario.
I’ve got a world coordinate frame.
I've got a camera that's fixed in the world.
I've got a robot.
There's a camera attached to the robot and
there's an object in the world that the robot
is looking at and might want to pick up.
Just as for the 2-dimensional case, we can
represent this by a pose-graph.
Each node, each blue circle here represents
a particular coordinate frame and the edges
of the graph represent the relative poses.
From this pose graph representation, I can
write an expression something like this and
to check that it's correct, we can look at
it graphically in the pose-graph.
The left hand side of the expression is shown
in red and the right hand side of the expression
is shown in blue.